---
layout: post
title:  "Reflections on Classroom Simulations"
date:   2018-03-20 11:00pm
categories: stic
---
# Lesson 1 - Focusing on Teaching
For the first lesson, I wanted something that I could get my 'class' to do. So seeing as I have 2 mugs full of dice, I decided to give a lesson on the probability distribution of rolling 2d6 (rolling two six-sided dice). The plan was to get the class to each take 2 dice, rolling them and noting down the sum of the numbers, and repeating this as many times as possible in 3-4 minutes. Then, we could collate the results on the whiteboard so as to see something that should vaguely resemble a normal distribution, with significantly more results falling around 6-8 than at 2-3 or 11-12. From here, a discussion about why that distribution arises as opposed to the flat distribution of a single dice, and calculate the probabilities of each result.

This all went well enough to plan - everyone enjoyed rolling the dice, and the collated results demonstrated that while individually, there were was a lot of randomness across what individuals rolled, when combined together, the normal distribution did appear. It wasn't all perfect though - the lesson went over by around 4 minutes, and my board work wasn't super well planned out. The task setting at the start of the lesson was messy as well. I didn't particularly well explain what the task was, and how to note down results. Producing a worksheet with the instructions, and a table already set out to collate results would have made the task setting much smoother. While the activity was running successfully, I probably should have spent the time pre-writing parts of my notes on the board to be able to focus on the discussion afterwards, rather than be trying to write on the board as well. I think that the interaction/discussion with the class worked well enough - I asked a mixed of closed and open questions, and there was opportunity for students to make other observations or inquire further about the content. I think my writing on the board was legible enough, all though better planning would have been good to make better use of the available space. And upon reviewing the video, I feel like my stance, how I sounded and looked, came across as much more in control and confident than I felt on the inside.

# Lesson 2 - A Misbehaving Student
So the lesson (an introduction to Coulomb's Law) could have gone much better. I'm not naturally an authoritarian sort of person, and maintaining a firm control over a class is not one of my skills. I also still struggling with how to properly target the 10 minute lesson. This time I actually prepared formal notes in advance, and my whiteboard work, but I significantly overestimated how much time that class interaction and work would take, and went quite overtime. I also felt like I had basically zero control over the class. But I guess this result does not surprise me. I knew going into it that this wasn't going to be one of my skills, but was something I wanted to develop. One nice piece of feedback was that, even though I went overtime and had poor control, the group enjoyed my lesson. To me, that's external validation that my approach to lesson structure and the presentation of content is adequate, while highlighting that the timing and class management portions are the areas to focus on.

I think a major part of why I managed the class poorly was having too much content - my mind was so occupied with trying to work out how to cover all the content I wanted to get through that the classroom management strategies I'd planned just didn't appear. What I need to do for the next one is design the lesson to remove the mental load of focusing on content deliver, to allow me to focus entirely on the classroom interaction - to be in over-watch mode, being able to keep an eye on the class, while still interacting with the class more one on one or in small groups. I figure this will still provide opportunity for the class to misbehave, but actually leave me in a position to be able to focus on responding.

So as far as improvements, my planning was better, though only as far as content delivery was concerned - the whiteboard work was clearer, and better laid out. I had also worked on making sure my explanations were clear. I made the mistake of planning 10 minutes of me talking, and forgetting that class interaction takes a significant amount of time. Thus the interaction part suffered - I had asked for hands up at the start, but forget to enforce that policy later during the lesson, I didn't really do a good job giving praise, or calling out students and keeping them in line.

# Lesson 3 - A Misbehaving Student and a Kinaesthetic Learner
This week went much better. In response to the previous week, I this time designed the lesson to be a 3-4 minute of me delivering new content, followed by a worksheet. The topic this time was a year 11 introduction to the radian measure on the unit circle, with the worksheet getting students to calculate common angles on the unit circle in radians, and then getting practice converting  back and forth between radians and degrees. This worked much better than the previous lessons - the task setting worked much better, with the worksheet providing instructions, and I even managed to finish exactly on time. Not having to worry about delivering content, I was freed up to focus on interacting with students, walking around to check if everyone understood the task, and if they were having any trouble. When the Kinaesthetic learner began to fidget I was able to catch the behaviour and redirect it before it became too large a distraction for the class. I was also able to give the attention seeking student some positive attention by helping them get under way with the task, while still getting around the table to check in with all the students. This process let me keep my eye on the time, to actually wrap up the lesson on time (setting the uncompleted worksheets as a homework task).

I was able to work in a bit more praise than I had in previous lessons, both by having a better prepared presentation, with notes to give praise as part of my lesson notes, but also as part of time spent interacting with the students while they worked on the worksheet. It's still something I struggle to do consistently and effortlessly, so definitely something to keep working on. Enforcing hands up was another thing I failed to do - I think in part the challenge comes from the proximity to all the students, but also that there's only 5 students in the class, and they're your peers.  Again, something to work on, but I suspect that not having the time pressure of fitting a class into a 10 minute block, and being in the environment of a proper classroom with 20 or more students, will make that sort of detail easier to manage and enforce.