---
layout: post
title:  "Seminar 6: International Baccalaureate"
date:   2018-04-14 6:00pm
categories: core-cm bteach
---
Assessment in the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IBDP) differs from other systems like SACE in a few ways. For example, external assessment in the form of examinations form around 75% of the assessment in most courses. Every course will have at least one exam, but can have up to three, and these exams come in quite a variety of forms, like essays, short-response questions, case-study questions, multiple-choice questions, among others. The other 25% is internal assessment from teachers, and can include things like oral work, fieldwork, lab work, investigations, performances, and/or business, depending on the subject. The balance can sometimes be a 50:50 balance in some arts courses. Internal assessment must reflect the assessment components found in the final external exam. The moderation process is done on a global scale, with work being moderated by people in different countries.

Within the IB, formative assessment is important for providing a focused source of student feedback. Provides feedback to both students and teachers to help both to guide the students learning. With so much of the assessment being external at the end of the studies, it is then critical to get high quality formative assessment to ensure student learning is on track, and any knowledge gaps can be addressed, and the way the content is presented by the teacher improved to reflect that. This is assisted with diagnostic testing in preparation of delivering content.