---
layout: post
title:  "Collaboration, Cooperation, and Sharing"
date:   2018-03-11 3:00pm
categories: ict-integration
---
Missing Summary

Question 1: **Collaboration WITHOUT technology?**

An example from my own experience of being a student in Year 11 Specialist Maths that I could see myself reusing was use of [portable whiteboards](https://www.officeworks.com.au/shop/officeworks/p/j-burrows-magnetic-whiteboard-900-x-600mm-oak-jbwhte96ok) for collaborative problem solving and revision. We would have one between 3-5 students, and we would use them to work together on harder circle theorem proofs, or in other subjects for things like revision mind maps. Rather than needing to have large paper available for such a collaborative exercise, you could just have half a dozen whiteboards (based on the class side), and they have the added benefit of being erasable - you can try things and then erase them if they don't work, or rewrite them when they do, once you're done, you can take a photo, and then just erase the boards and have them ready to go for next time.

Question 2: **Collaboration WITH technology?**

[Google Docs](https://www.google.com.au/docs/about/) is a great tool for working together on the same document. I could envision using such a tool when working on a Science as a Human Endeavour research task. Rather than having students work individually on a topic, have them work in groups, deciding on a larger shared topic which they can all research different aspects off. You could still get students to prepare individual reports on their chosen aspect, but also have a group article or presentation on the full breadth of research done by the students. Google Docs in this scenario would allow all the students in a group see and make use of the research found by other students as it is found, so that progress can be easily made both inside and outside of the classroom.

Question 3: **Feedback?**

The podcasts provide a nice general overview of some of the technologies out there, but there are more options available (as people have shared through these responses). Additional podcasts could be created to highlight further technologies used - wouldn't necessarily need everyone to have watched every podcast, but you could provide additional variety and help highlight some of the gems shared that might get lost in the sea of responses to each weeks work. But otherwise, the podcasts have been good - a nice mix of talking about the ideas behind some of the concepts, as well as highlighting specific technologies that can assist in those relevant areas.
