---
layout: post
title:  "ICT: Literacy & Numeracy"
date:   2018-03-04 3:00pm
categories: core-cm bteach
tags: [1-1, 1-2, 1-3, 1-4, 2-1, 2-2, 2-3, 2-4, 2-5, 2-6, 5-1, 5-2, 5-3, 5-4, 5-5]
---
An introduction to the idea of technology being a core literacies in addition to the 3 "R's" of Reading, Writing, and Arithmetic, given that enormous amounts of information are available to us from any device, and technology becomes more integrated into every part of society. Additionally, an introduction to different software solutions and packages that can be used to assist learning in Mathematics and Numeracy ([Mathletics](http://au.mathletics.com/), [MathsOnline](https://www.mathsonline.com.au/), [Geogebra](https://www.geogebra.org/), [Gapminder](https://www.gapminder.org/)) and Literacy ([Turnitin](http://turnitin.com/), [Schmoop](https://www.shmoop.com/), advanced uses of [Word](https://products.office.com/en-au/word)).

Question 1: **Should ICT be considered as important as the 3 R's?**

For better or for worse, the reality is that the technology is steadily becoming more and more integrated into society, creating new industries, and evolving others. More jobs will become available requiring high levels of technological competency, and existing industries are adapting to using technology to assist with aspects of the hard labour involved, whether that's in running complex mathematical calculations (anything from solving complex equations, to creating realistic simulations for science or entertainment, to analysing the stock market, or forming the foundation of [cryptocurrencies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptocurrency)), or governing the inner workings of a vehicle (as an example, one of my friends is an auto-mechanic, and when I said I'd finished my Computer Science major, they suggested their job as a potential career path as their work involves a lot of programming the electronic components of the vehicles they work on).

So because technology is becoming an increasingly important part of how the world runs, if our goal as teachers is to impart important life skills to prepare students for their future, then ICT is definitely a skill to be taught, and taught well. Definitely a basic level of competency of how to operate a computer or a tablet, with basic skills like basic word processing, or how to use the internet (including mobile phones and social media, and how to keep safe when doing so), is already a critically important skill. Having a more generally advance competency with having knowledge of how to use a range of technical software like CAD,  video editing software, visual arts software, web technologies, along with an ability to program, is also more than likely a level of technological competency that will be required within our lifetime.

Question 2: **Program Review**

So I'll talk about Geogebra, because that's been a technology that I've had a fair amount of experience with. I was first introduced to it back in year 11, I believe, when learning about circle theorems in Specialist Maths, and it's been a useful tool ever since. Whenever I've needed to do, or investigate, something require geometry, it's been the first place I've gone to, as it's really easy to set up a visual diagram, setting up rules about how points and shapes relate to each other, so that you can then click and drag points around and see how shapes, angles, or lines change. In the case of circle theorems, you can satisfy yourself that, for example, the theorem that two angles subtended by the same arc are equal, rather than just accept it because it sorta makes sense, and you've been shown, or been made to work out, a written proof of that fact. Plus, it's useful for more than just that, with the ability to plot data from a spreadsheet, or graph mathematical functions, and do things like algebraically derive or integrate functions, and more. Again, a cool thing about graphing a function in geogebra is that you can set up sliders for constants in your function, which lets you do things like investigate the quadratic function, and gain an appreciation of what each constant in the equation y=ax²+bx+c affects in the shape of the graph. Here's [an example](https://www.geogebra.org/m/Uu62h5Yd#material/QfQPfRUJ) of how someone's used geogebra to demonstrate that exact thing. And this leads into one of the coolest more recent features (at least since 2011 when I first was introduced to geogebra) - online worksheets.

You can create online worksheets with various elements - text, pictures, videos, questions, and embedded interactable geogebra diagrams. And these worksheets can be organised into a workbook that takes you through a series of lesson. The previous link is an example of just such a workbook. And as another example, [here](https://ggbm.at/U68cGEex) is a worksheet I created for a lesson plan for a maths class on the unit circle and how the trigonometry functions relate to them.

So as you can hopefully tell, geogebra is very useful for a mathematics class, but could well be used to great effect in sciences classes as well.

Question 3: **Shift in Pedagogy?**

The role of the teacher in that we endeavour to help the students under our care to become the best that they can be has not change, but the manner in which we might to that has. As previously discussed, the skills required by industries has changed in that transition between ages, and so education must change to support that shift, but that shift has also provided other ways in which to support learning. The rise of the internet has provided a wealth of information that can be accessed within seconds, with many resources dedicated to educating viewers on many subjects. A student, had they the desire, could well educate themselves entirely from freely available online resources. So whereas going to a school and learning from the teacher lecturing from the front of the classroom was basically the only way of gaining a knowledge from a wide range of areas, short of somehow finding and gaining access to books, and having the time and ability to read and study from them, now it's much easier for learning to occur in a self-driven manner at the learners own pace. So I definitely think that's something that has changed, and I've definitely had teachers that have acted more as the guide in a collaborative learning environment as opposed to the lecturer out the front sort. And I think that's a change for the better.
